---
title: "#ADHD"
author: ["Junghan Kim"]
date: 2023-05-31T13:26:00+09:00
lastmod: 2024-11-20T07:30:31+09:00
tags: ["meta"]
categories: ["MetaWord"]
draft: false
---

-   [(2019) 성인 ADHD의 대처기술 안내서: 실생활적응능력 향상을 위한 인지행동치료 기법 활용]({{< relref "/notes/20240325T002602.md" >}})

주의력 결핍 과잉행동 장애 "Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder"


## 선택적 집중 장애 {#선택적-집중-장애}

ADHD 선택적 집중 장애. 두뇌의 사령관 전전두엽 문제. 고질적인 도파민 부족 상태. [Neurotypical]Important-based Nervous System vs. [ADHD] Interest-based Nervious System ADHD

Ref: [Adult ADHD Isn’t What You Think It Is](<https://www.leadingwithadhd.com/blog/2019/4/15/adult-adhd-isnt-what-you-think-it-is>)


## Awesome ADHD {#awesome-adhd}

<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2023-08-16 Wed 06:24]</span></span>


## ADHD from LOGSEQ {#adhd-from-logseq}

<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2023-10-20 Fri 22:34]</span></span>

-   그래서 결론은? 도움이 된 부분은?
-   In this episode, I discuss ADHD (Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder): what it is, the common myths, and the biology and psychology of ADHD.
-   I discuss both behavioral and pharmacologic treatments for ADHD, and brain-machine interface tools. I also discuss behavioral training protocols that can improve focus in people with ADHD and those without ADHD, and for people of different ages. I discuss the role of dopamine in coordinating 'default-mode' and 'task-related' neural networks, attentional "blinks" (lapses of attention) and how to overcome them, and the role of actual blinks in time perception and attention. Finally, I review some of the prescription and over-the-counter compounds for increasing focus such as Adderall, Ritalin, Modafinil and Armodafinil, the racetams, Alpha-GPC and phosphatidylserine and the role of diet for managing ADHD (and the controversies of diet for ADHD).
-   The role of cell phones/technology in ADHD and ADHD-like challenges with focus are also discussed. Throughout, both basic science and clinical scenarios, as well as applicable tools and resources are covered.
-   요약을 해보자.
-   참고 자료
    -   &lt;Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Body, and Brain&gt;
        -   <http://binmaum.blogspot.com/2019/04/daniel-goleman.html>
-   Tools
-   \#books/subject/ADHD
    -   [Adult ADHD Isn't What You Think It Is](https://www.leadingwithadhd.com/blog/2019/4/15/adult-adhd-isnt-what-you-think-it-is)


## 관련 링크 {#관련-링크}

-   김나라 작가님: [나는 ADHD 노동자 입니다](http://m.ohmynews.com/NWS_Web/Series/series_general_list.aspx?SRS_CD=0000014120)


## Related-Notes {#related-notes}

## References

<style>.csl-entry{text-indent: -1.5em; margin-left: 1.5em;}</style><div class="csl-bib-body">
</div>
