---
title: 2024-11-02
author: ["Junghan Kim"]
date: 2024-11-02T16:00:00+09:00
tags: ["journal"]
categories: ["Journal", "Note"]
draft: false
---

## 2024-11-02 {#2024-11-02}


## #모닝페이지 {#모닝페이지}

<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2024-11-02 Sat&gt;</span></span>

> "But needless to say, Leonardo never finished executing his plan. Coming up with the conception was enough for him." Walter Isaacson 《Leonardo da Vinci》

-   [ ] \#모닝페이지
-   [ ] \#딥워크
-   [ ] \#가족 #정리
-   [ ] \#요약


## jesseduffield/lazygit: simple terminal UI for git commands {#jesseduffield-lazygit-simple-terminal-ui-for-git-commands}

<https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit>


## imfenghuang/obsidian-immersive-translate: Immersive Translate For Obsidian {#imfenghuang-obsidian-immersive-translate-immersive-translate-for-obsidian}

<https://github.com/imfenghuang/obsidian-immersive-translate>

로그인?


## 제미니 {#제미니}

<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2024-11-02 Sat 17:24]</span></span> <https://github.com/MUTED64/GeminiTranslate>

(MUTED64 [2023] 2024)

호출하면 브라우저에서 번역을 해서 표기하고 그 결과를 가져온다.


## **Second Edition** {#second-edition}

:PROPERTIES: :CUSTOM_ID: h1-1 :CLASS: level1 :END:

We have taught classical mechanics using this text every year at MIT since the first edition was published. We have learned a great deal about what difficulties students encountered with the material. We have found that some of our explanations needed improvement. This edition is the result of our new understanding.

Our software support has improved substantially over the years, and we have exploited it to provide algebraic proofs of more generality than could be supplied in the first edition. This advantage permeates most of the new edition.

In the first chapter we now go more directly to the coordinate representation of the action, without compromising the <span class="org-target" id="org-target--pxviii"></span>importance of the coordinate independence of the action. We also added a simple derivation of the Euler--Lagrange equations from the Principle of Stationary Action, supplementing the more formal derivation of the first edition.

In the chapter on rigid-body motion we now provide an algebraic derivation of the existence of the angular-velocity vector. Our new derivation is in harmony with the development of generalized coordinates for a rigid body as parameters of the transformation from a reference orientation to the actual orientation. We also provide a new section on quaternions as a way of avoiding singularities in the analysis of the motion of rigid bodies.

A canonical transformation is a transformation of phase-space coordinates and an associated transformation of the Hamiltonian that maintains a one-to-one correspondence between trajectories. We allow time-dependent systems and transformations, complicating the treatment of canonical transformations. The chapter on canonical transformations has been extensively revised to clarify the relationship of canonical transformations to symplectic transformations. We split off the treatment of canonical transformations that arise from evolution, including Lie transforms, into a new chapter.

We fixed myriad minor mistakes throughout. We hope that we have not introduced more than we have removed.

<span class="underline"><span class="underline"><span class="underline"><span class="underline"><span class="underline"><span class="underline"><span class="underline"><span class="underline">\_\_</span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span>

In his book on mathematical pedagogy [[17](bibliography.html#bib_17)], Hans Freudenthal argues that the reliance on ambiguous, unstated notational conventions in such expressions as _f/(/x_) and _df/(/x_)//dx/ makes mathematics, and especially introductory calculus, extremely confusing for beginning students; and he enjoins mathematics educators to use more formal modern notation.

In his beautiful book _Calculus on Manifolds_ [[40](bibliography.html#bib_40)], Michael Spivak uses functional notation. On p. 44 he discusses some of the problems with classical notation. We excerpt a particularly juicy passage:

The mere statement of [the chain rule] in classical notation requires the introduction of irrelevant letters. The usual evaluation for _D/<sub>1</sub>(/f_ ∘ (_g, h_)) runs as follows:

If _f/(/u, v_) is a function and _u_ = _g/(/x, y_) and _v_ = _h/(/x, y_) then

\\(\frac{\partial f(g(x,y),h(x,y)}{\partial x} = \frac{\partial f(u,v)}{\partial u}\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} + \frac{\partial f(u,v)}{\partial v}\frac{\partial v}{\partial x}\\) [The symbol ∂/u//∂/x/ means ∂///∂/x g/(_x, y_), and ∂///∂/u f/(_u, v_) means _D/<sub>1</sub>/f/(/u, v_) = _D/<sub>1</sub>/f/(/g/(/x, y_), _h/(/x, y_)).] This equation is often written simply

$\frac{\partial f}{\partial x} = \frac{\partial f}{\partial u}\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} + \frac{\partial f}{\partial v}\frac{\partial v}{\partial x}.$ Note that _f_ means something different on the two sides of the equation!

This is presented here without explanation, to give the flavor of the notation. The text gives a full explanation.

“It is necessary to use the apparatus of partial derivatives, in which even the notation is ambiguous.” V.I. Arnold, _Mathematical Methods of Classical Mechanics_ [[5](bibliography.html#bib_5)], Section 47, p. 258. See also the footnote on that page.


## Related-Notes {#related-notes}

-

## References

<style>.csl-entry{text-indent: -1.5em; margin-left: 1.5em;}</style><div class="csl-bib-body">
  <div class="csl-entry">MUTED64. (2023) 2024. “MUTED64/GeminiTranslate.” <a href="https://github.com/MUTED64/GeminiTranslate">https://github.com/MUTED64/GeminiTranslate</a>.</div>
</div>
