---
title: "더글러스 호프스태터 (1945-) Douglas Hofstadter - 인지과학 사고 유추"
author: ["Junghan Kim"]
date: 2024-07-29T07:50:00+09:00
lastmod: 2024-11-20T07:13:45+09:00
tags: ["person"]
categories: ["Bibliography"]
draft: false
---

-   [더글러스 호프스태터 (2017) 사고의 본질: 유추, 지성의 연료와 불길]({{< relref "/notes/20240518T051525.md" >}})
-   [더글러스 호프스태터 (2023) 명료하게 생각하는 법: 극단과 반이성 속의 현대인을 위한 명확한 사고법]({{< relref "/notes/20240518T162457.md" >}})
-   [더글러스 호프스태터 (1979) GEB: 괴델, 에셔, 바흐 - 지식 사상 독창적 통합]({{< relref "/notes/20240713T204705.md" >}})
-   [더글러스 호프스태터 대니얼 데닛 (1981) 마음과 나]({{< relref "/notes/20240729T070852.md" >}})

(더글러스 호프스태터 1945)

-   "더글러스 호프스태터 Douglas Hofstadter - 인지과학 사고 유추" 더글러스 호프스태터 1945
-   Douglas Richard Hofstadter (born February 15, 1945) is an American cognitive and computer scientist whose research includes concepts such as the sense of self in relation to the external world, consciousness, analogy-making, strange loops, artificial intelligence, and discovery in mathematics and physics. His 1979 book Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid won the Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction, and a National Book Award (at that time called The American Book Award) for Science. His 2007 book I Am a Strange Loop won the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Science and Technology.


## "Metamagical Themas: Questing For The Essence Of Mind And Pattern" 더글러스 호프스태터 1985 {#metamagical-themas-questing-for-the-essence-of-mind-and-pattern-더글러스-호프스태터-1985}

-   Hofstadter’s collection of quirky essays is unified by its primary concern: to examine the way people perceive and think.
-   Metamagical Themas

(NO_ITEM_DATA:book-metamagicalthemasquesting08)

"Metamagical Themas" 2024 (“Metamagical Themas” 2024)

-   Metamagical Themas is an eclectic collection of articles that Douglas Hofstadter wrote for the popular science magazine Scientific American during the early 1980s. The anthology was published in 1985 by Basic Books. The volume is substantial in size and contains extensive notes concerning responses to the articles and other information relevant to their content. (One of the notes—page 65—suggested memetics for the study of memes.) Major themes include: self-reference in memes, language, art and logic; discussions of philosophical issues important in cognitive science/AI; analogies and what makes something similar to something else (specifically what makes, for example, an uppercase letter ’A’ recognizable as such); and lengthy discussions of the work of Robert Axelrod on the prisoner’s dilemma, as well as the idea of superrationality. The concept of superrationality, and its relevance to the Cold War, environmental issues and such, is accompanied by notes on experiments conducted by the author at the time. Another notable feature is the inclusion of two dialogues in the style of those appearing in Gödel, Escher, Bach. Ambigrams are mentioned. There are three articles centered on the Lisp programming language, in which Hofstadter first details the language itself, and then shows how it relates to Gödel’s incompleteness theorem. Two articles are devoted to Rubik’s Cube and similar puzzles. Many chapters open with an illustration of an extremely abstract alphabet, yet one which is still gestaltly recognizable as such. The game of Nomic was first introduced to the public in this column, in June 1982, when excerpts from a book (still unpublished at the time) by the game’s creator Peter Suber were printed and discussed. The index of the book mentions Hofstadter’s recurring alter ego, Egbert B. Gebstadter.


## Related-Notes {#related-notes}

## References

<style>.csl-entry{text-indent: -1.5em; margin-left: 1.5em;}</style><div class="csl-bib-body">
  <div class="csl-entry">더글러스 호프스태터. 1945. “더글러스 호프스태터 Douglas Hofstadter - 인지과학 사고 유추.” In <i>Wikipedia</i>. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Douglas_Hofstadter&oldid=1224757445">https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Douglas_Hofstadter&#38;oldid=1224757445</a>.</div>
  <div class="csl-entry">“Metamagical Themas.” 2024. In <i>Wikipedia</i>. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metamagical_Themas&oldid=1237251549">https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metamagical_Themas&#38;oldid=1237251549</a>.</div>
  <div class="csl-entry">NO_ITEM_DATA:book-metamagicalthemasquesting08</div>
</div>
